Welcome back.
In a previous video we learned that when the key word this is not inside of a declared object its value
will be the global object but quickly demonstrate what I mean by declared object in case the previous
video still left you a bit confused.
Remember the material here is quite challenging.
So try watching these videos a couple of times and typing the code examples to reinforce your knowledge.
I'm going to make an empty object called data.
What I've just done is declared an object the data object did not exist until I declared it.
Now I'm going to attach a property onto this object called instructor and assign it to the string Elahi.
No data has a key with the value of LP inside of it.
This is what we mean when we say inside of a declared object.
If that still confuses you that's all.
It will make even more sense when we examine the second rule and see the key word.
This inside of an object.
Now let's finish up with the first rule.
As you can see here when we put the key word this inside of a function its value is still the global
object.
Remember we said that the global rule applies.
Unless the keyword this is inside of a declared object it's inside of a function right now.
So when we call the function what is this the value returned is the window object.
Now let's look at one final example.
What happens if we attach properties onto the keyword this when its value is the global object.
And just as a reference when I say Global Object I mean the window object as an aside in different javascript
environments.
The value of the global object will be different.
Inside are variables in this function.
We are attaching a property onto the keyword this called Person and sending it equal to the string L.E..
Since the keyword this refers to the global object anything we attach onto the global object becomes
a global variable which means we can use it.
Outside of this function that might seem like something we might want to do but it's actually very bad
practice.
Let's quickly revisit how variables and scope work in javascript.
I'm going to declare a variable called dog and set the value to be the string crusty and then going
to make a function called Meet person and then side declare a variable called person using the marquee
word and set it equal to the string part.
Since I declared this variable inside of the function and I'm not returning its value from the function
I do not have access to it outside of the function.
However since I declared my dog variable in the global scope I have access to it everywhere.
Now we can get around the problem of not being able to access our person variable i omitting the VAR
keyword inside of our function.
However that's bad practice.
It's generally best practice to declare all of our variables at the top of our code even if they do
not have a value and then assign those values at a later time.
Unfortunately since the keyword this is the global object it's quite easy to accidentally declare global
variables inside of a function.
Let's see an example.
I'm going to make a function call a mistake and then side set a property on the keyword.
This called that idea and assign it to the string.
Oops now I am going to call that function and I have access to my bad idea variable.
I've just created a global variable from a function in S-5 a previous version of javascript something
called strict mode was added to help us try to write a javascript code when strict mode is enabled.
You can see at the top here you place the text.
Use strict in double quotes.
The value of the keyword.
This when inside of a function is undefined.
This means if we try to attach properties onto the keyword this when in strict mode we get a type error.
In this video you reviewed the first rule for determining the value of the keyword this and saw how
we can accidentally create global variables inside of functions.
We also saw how strict mode can prevent us from making that mistake in the next video.
I will be discussing the second rule and what the value of the keyword this is when inside of a declared
object see there.